Product managers must make choices about which new features to prioritize.
There will almost always be more ideas to
improve a product than time and engineering resources,
so a product manager must be ruthless in making
choices about where to focus a team's efforts and time.
One way of approaching the issue of prioritization is by using a framework,
like the RICE framework to determine
the order in which new feature should be prioritized.
Prioritization of new features can
sometimes be the biggest challenge product managers face.
One difficulty product managers face is the desire to focus on new exciting ideas.
While sometimes the new exciting ideas are the right features to focus on,
other times, more traditional and established changes may provide a greater lift.
Another reality that product managers face is
different stakeholders may have pet ideas that appeal to their particular use cases.
Perhaps the head of sales has recently talked to a client that asked for feature A,
while the head of development cares more about
technical debt in the product and wants to spend time on that.
Even if stakeholders don't have pet ideas,
they still won't always agree on what features are the most important.
Stakeholders have different perspectives on a project,
and may even be pursuing different KPIs.
So the features each wants to prioritize will not always be the same.
A prioritization framework provides a common language for discussing features.
By using a framework,
stakeholders and product managers can prioritize
features in a manner that is consistent and fair.